Added section on how to install goshimmer from source (#1935)
iotaledger/goshimmer: documentation/docs/tutorials/setup.md

Default login credentials are:
* `username`: admin
* `password`: admin
## Installing Goshimmer by Building From Source
### Software Requirements
Upgrade your systems' packages by running the following command:
```bash
apt update && apt dist-upgrade -y
```  

#### Installing RocksDB Compression Libraries

GoShimmer uses RocksDB as its underlying database engine. You can install the dependencies required by RocksDB by running the following command:

```bash
sudo apt-get install libgflags-dev libsnappy-dev zlib1g-dev libbz2-dev liblz4-dev libzstd-dev
```  

####  GCC and G++

GCC and G++ are required for the compilation to work properly.  You can install them by running the following command:

```bash
sudo apt install gcc g++
```

### Clone the Repository

Once you have installed the [software requirements](#software-requirements), you should clone the [GoShimmer repository](https://github.com/iotaledger/goshimmer/) into the `/opt` directory. You can do so by running the following commands: 

```bash
cd /opt
git clone https://github.com/iotaledger/goshimmer.git
```

> ###  Golang-go 1.16

Reviewer: The whole Golang-go installation section would probably make more sense as a child of ### Software Requirements

Your system will need to have [Go 1.16](https://go.dev/doc/go1.16) installed for the build script to work. You can install it by running the following command:

```bash
apt install golang-go
````

You can make sure you are using the right go version by running the following command:

```bash
go version
```

If apt did not install Go version 1.16+, you can use the following commands to download and install it from source:

```bash
cd /home
wget https://dl.google.com/go/go1.16.4.linux-amd64.tar.gz
sudo tar -xvf go1.16.4.linux-amd64.tar.gz
sudo mv go /usr/local
export GOROOT=/usr/local/go
cd /opt/goshimmer
mkdir gopath
export GOPATH=/opt/goshimmer/gopath
export PATH=$GOPATH/bin:$GOROOT/bin:$PATH
```

> You run `go version` again to check if you have successfully installed `golang-go 1.16`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can run `go version` again to check if you have successfully installed `golang-go 1.16`.
```

This installation is only valid for this session. If you enter a new session, you will have to enter these commands again:

```bash
export GOROOT=/usr/local/go
export GOPATH=/opt/goshimmer/gopath
export PATH=$GOPATH/bin:$GOROOT/bin:$PATH
```

> 

Reviewer: Is there a way to make the installation permanent? If so, it may be good to add it here.

Author: Do not know how to yet. Is on my to-do list.

Reviewer 2: Generally you put these environment variables in the shell's config file so that it can load when you start a session. But this depends on which shell a user is using, e.g., `.bashrc` or `.zshrc`. Here's some info on how to do it: https://linuxhint.com/export-a-path-in-bashrc/

However, I think this is way too detailed here.

Author: Ok, removed this part.

### Download the Snapshot
You can download the latest snapshot by running the following command from the goshimmer directory you created when you [cloned the repository](#clone-the-repository):

```bash
sudo wget -O snapshot.bin https://dbfiles-goshimmer.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/snapshots/nectar/snapshot-latest.bin
```

### Making the Node Dashboard Accessible

You will need to modify your goshimmer configuration file to make the Node Dashboard accessible. 

> 1. Make a copy of the [config.default.json](https://github.com/iotaledger/goshimmer/blob/develop/config.default.json) file and rename it config.json.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Make a copy of the [config.default.json](https://github.com/iotaledger/goshimmer/blob/develop/config.default.json) file and rename it `config.json`.
```

2. Using your text editor of choice, edit line 23 to change the `bindAddress` to `0.0.0.0:8081`.
3. Save your changes.

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: The nano instructions seem unnecessary as the user may use any text editor to this.

Author: These are instructions on how to make the goshimmer dashboard accessible through the user's browser. Not nano specific instructions.

> nano config.default.json

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: The tutorial in the docker installation section also uses nano to create a docker-compose file. In order to keep the tutorial accessible for people without previous linux knowledge, I would definitely leave the specific command lines.

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> On line `23` of the file, change the **bindAddress** to `0.0.0.0:8081`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: If the config file structure changes this might not be line 23 anymore. Just say change wherever it says "bindAddress".

Author: Done 👍

> Then press `CTRL+X` to exit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Then save the modified buffer (press `Y`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Then change the file name to `config.json` (you remove “default”).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> And press the `Y` key to save the file (this will allow you to view the GoShimmer dashboard in your browser).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ### Run the GoShimmer node

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Run the GoShimmer Node
```

You can now run the build script for the goshimmer binary with the following command:

```bash
./scripts/build.sh
```

:::tip 
You can use the `screen` command to keep the node running if you terminate your current ssh session.
:::

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

You can now run the GoShimmer binary to start your node: 

```bash
./goshimmer
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> You can then "detach" from the GoShimmer screen by pressing your `CTRL+A+D` keys.  This will remove the GoShimmer window,  but it will still be running. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can "detach" from the GoShimmer screen by pressing your `CTRL+A+D` keys. This will remove the GoShimmer window,  but it will still be running. 
```

> You need the number from the start of the window name to reattach it. If you forget it, you can always use the -ls (list) option, as shown below, to get a list of the detached windows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need the number from the start of the window name to reattach it. If you forget it, you can always use the `-ls` (list) option, as shown below, to get a list of the detached windows:
```

```bash
screen -ls
```

> When you’re ready, you can use the -r (reattach) option and the number of the session to reattach it, like so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the -r (reattach) option and the number of the session to reattach it, like so:
```

```bash
screen -r (your session id)
```  

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ### Stopping the node

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Stopping the Node
```

> To stop a screen session and your GoShimmer node press `CTRL+A+K`  inside the running window. This will stop your screen session.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To stop a screen session and your GoShimmer node press `CTRL+A+K` inside the running window. This will stop your screen session.
```

Default login credentials are:
* `username`: admin
* `password`: admin

## Installing GoShimmer by building from source

Lets first upgrade the packages on our system:
```
apt update && apt dist-upgrade -y
```  

### Installing RocksDB compression libraries

GoShimmer uses RocksDB as its underlying db engine. That requires a few dependencies before building the project. This can be done by installing the compression libraries:

```bash
sudo apt-get install libgflags-dev libsnappy-dev zlib1g-dev libbz2-dev liblz4-dev libzstd-dev
```  

### Install GCC and G++

This is required in order for the compilation to work properly

```bash
sudo apt install gcc g++
```

### Cloning the repository

Now we have to get the GoShimmer repository by cloning it into the `/opt` directory.

```bash
cd /opt
```
```bash
git clone https://github.com/iotaledger/goshimmer.git
```

### Installing Golang-go 1.16

In order for the build script to work later on, we have to install the programming language Go

```bash
apt install golang-go
````

> Check the go version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can make sure you are using the right go version by running the following command:
```

```bash
go version
```

> If apt did not install go version 1.16+, use the method below  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If apt did not install Go version 1.16+, you can use the following commands to download and install it from source:
```

```bash
cd /home

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

wget https://dl.google.com/go/go1.16.4.linux-amd64.tar.gz

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

sudo tar -xvf go1.16.4.linux-amd64.tar.gz

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

sudo mv go /usr/local

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

export GOROOT=/usr/local/go

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

cd /opt/goshimmer

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

mkdir gopath

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

export GOPATH=/opt/goshimmer/gopath

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

export PATH=$GOPATH/bin:$GOROOT/bin:$PATH
```

> Use `go version` to check if it successfully installed golang-go 1.16

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You run `go version` again to check if you have successfully installed `golang-go 1.16`.
```

> Note that it only installs for this session. If you enter a new session then you would have to enter these commands again:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This installation is only valid for this session. If you enter a new session, you will have to enter these commands again:
```

```bash
export GOROOT=/usr/local/go

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

export GOPATH=/opt/goshimmer/gopath

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

export PATH=$GOPATH/bin:$GOROOT/bin:$PATH
```

> ### Downloading the snapshot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Download the Snapshot
```

> We now have to get the latest snapshot (make sure to be in the goshimmer directory)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can download the latest snapshot by running the following command from the goshimmer directory you created when you [cloned the repository](#clone-the-repository):
```

```bash
sudo wget -O snapshot.bin https://dbfiles-goshimmer.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/snapshots/nectar/snapshot-latest.bin
```

> ### Making the node dashboard accessible

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Making the Node Dashboard Accessible
```

> Access the `config.default.json` file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will need to modify your goshimmer configuration file to make the Node Dashboard accessible. 
1. Make a copy of the [config.default.json](https://github.com/iotaledger/goshimmer/blob/develop/config.default.json) file and rename it config.json.
2. Using your text editor of choice, edit line 23 to change the `bindAddress` to `0.0.0.0:8081`.
3. Save your changes.
```

Reviewer: I think we can skip the nano instructions as user will either know how to use it, or use any other text editor.

```bash
nano config.default.json
```

On line `23` of the file, change the **bindAddress** to `0.0.0.0:8081`.

Then press `CTRL+X` to exit.
Then save the modified buffer (press `Y`).
Then change the file name to `config.json` (you remove “default”).
And press the `Y` key to save the file (this will allow you to view the GoShimmer dashboard in your browser).

> ### Running the GoShimmer node

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Run the GoShimmer node
```

> You can now run the build script for the goshimmer binary. Enter this command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now run the build script for the goshimmer binary with the following command:
```

```bash
./scripts/build.sh
```

> In order to keep the node running in the case you terminate the ssh session, you can enter the command: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::tip 
You can use the `screen` command to keep the node running if you terminate your current ssh session.
:::
```

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> screen

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Then click `enter` to get rid of the GNU screen information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Now run the goshimmer binary, this will start your node!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now run the GoShimmer binary to start your node: 
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

./goshimmer
```

> You can then "detach" from the goshimmer screen by pressing your `CTRL+A+D` keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> GoShimmer is still running but its window is removed. You’re returned to the terminal window from which you launched the screen session. A message tells you that a screen window labeled `(some numbers).pts-0.goshimmer` has been detached.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can then "detach" from the GoShimmer screen by pressing your `CTRL+A+D` keys.  This will remove the GoShimmer window,  but it will still be running. 
```

> You need the number from the start of the window name to reattach it. If you forget it, you can always use the -ls (list) option, as shown below, to get a list of the detached windows:

Reviewer: Do we need the reattachment instructions? It seems like something more related to linux than goshimmer

Author: Hm, without reattaching to the screen session and killing it, the node would only stop when the user deletes the directory. I personally think it would be useful for managing the node but if you think we should leave it out I will go with you. Perhaps, if we leave it out, we can link to a tutorial for reattaching?

```bash
screen -ls
```

When you’re ready, you can use the -r (reattach) option and the number of the session to reattach it, like so:

```bash
screen -r (your session id)
```  

### Stopping the node

> In order to stop a screen session and thus your GoShimmer node: inside the running window press `CTRL+A+K`. This will stop your screen session.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To stop a screen session and your GoShimmer node press `CTRL+A+K`  inside the running window. This will stop your screen session.
```
